README.md, before:

# Yar-e Dabestani-man (My Schoolmate)

Yar-e Dabestani-man is an innovative, AI-powered adaptive learning platform designed specifically for Iranian high school students. It offers a personalized and interactive educational experience with features like tailored lesson plans, a virtual AI tutor, and dynamic content to help students master complex subjects at their own pace.

The application is built with a modern tech stack, leveraging the power of Next.js for the frontend and Google's Gemini models via Genkit for its advanced AI capabilities.

## ✨ Key Features

-   **Adaptive Learning Paths**: The platform analyzes a student's performance on quizzes to generate personalized content and adjust the difficulty for subsequent lessons, ensuring a learning path that is tailored to their needs.
-   **Virtual AI Teacher**: Students can engage in a real-time conversation with an AI tutor for subjects like Math, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology. The tutor can answer questions, explain complex topics, and even analyze images of homework problems.
-   **Interactive Content**: To make learning more engaging, the virtual tutor can generate dynamic content, including formatted tables for comparisons and interactive mathematical graphs using the Desmos API.
-   **Personalized Glossary**: Students can save key terms and definitions from lessons into a personal, persistent glossary for easy review and study.
-   **Subject-Based Curriculum**: The app is neatly organized by subjects, providing a clear structure for students to navigate through lessons and learning materials.
-   **Progressive Web App (PWA)**: The application is fully PWA-enabled, allowing for installation on mobile devices and offline access to learning content.

## 🚀 Tech Stack

-   **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
-   **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **AI Framework**: [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit)
-   **AI Model**: [Google Gemini](https://deepmind.google/technologies/gemini/)
-   **UI Components**: [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
-   **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
-   **Charting**: [Recharts](https://recharts.org/) & [Desmos API](https://www.desmos.com/api)
-   **State Management**: React Context API

## 🏁 Getting Started

To get the project up and running on your local machine, follow these simple steps.

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 20.x or higher)
-   [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (usually comes with Node.js)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repository-url>
    cd <project-directory>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the root of the project and add your Google AI API key:
    ```
    GEMINI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_api_key_here
    ```

### Running the Application

1.  **Run the development server:**
    This command starts the Next.js application.
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

2.  **Run the Genkit development server (in a separate terminal):**
    This command starts the local server for the AI flows, allowing you to test and debug them.
    ```bash
    npm run genkit:watch
    ```

3.  **Open the application:**
    Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) in your browser to see the running application. The Genkit developer UI will be available at [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

## 📁 Project Structure

The project follows a standard Next.js App Router structure:

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── app/                # Main application pages and layouts
│   ├── components/         # Reusable React components (UI, layout, features)
│   ├── ai/                 # Genkit configuration and AI flows
│   │   ├── flows/          # AI logic for features like virtual teacher
│   │   └── genkit.ts       # Core Genkit setup
│   ├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks (e.g., useUser, useGlossary)
│   ├── lib/                # Shared utilities, data, types, and configs
│   └── public/             # Static assets (images, manifest)
├── package.json
└── next.config.ts
```

## 🤖 AI Features Deep Dive

The AI functionality is powered by **Genkit**, an open-source framework for building robust AI applications.

-   **`src/ai/flows/virtual-teacher.ts`**: This flow manages the chat logic for the AI tutor. It uses Google's Gemini model and is equipped with **tools** to solve mathematical equations and generate Desmos graphs, providing a rich, interactive experience.
-   **`src/ai/flows/adaptive-learning-paths.ts`**: This flow takes a student's quiz responses and lesson context to generate a personalized analysis and suggest content for the next lesson, adapting to the student's learning curve.

---

This README provides a solid foundation for your project. Feel free to expand on any section as your application grows!

Commit message:

Describe the role of each section (math, physics, chemistry, ...) indepe

README.md, after:

# Yar-e Dabestani-man (My Schoolmate)

Yar-e Dabestani-man is an innovative, AI-powered adaptive learning platform designed specifically for Iranian high school students. It offers a personalized and interactive educational experience with features like tailored lesson plans, a virtual AI tutor, and dynamic content to help students master complex subjects at their own pace.

The application is built with a modern tech stack, leveraging the power of Next.js for the frontend and Google's Gemini models via Genkit for its advanced AI capabilities.

## ✨ Key Features

-   **Adaptive Learning Paths**: The platform analyzes a student's performance on quizzes to generate personalized content and adjust the difficulty for subsequent lessons, ensuring a learning path that is tailored to their needs.
-   **Virtual AI Teacher**: Students can engage in a real-time conversation with an AI tutor for subjects like Math, Physics, Chemistry, and Biology. The tutor can answer questions, explain complex topics, and even analyze images of homework problems.
-   **Interactive Content**: To make learning more engaging, the virtual tutor can generate dynamic content, including formatted tables for comparisons and interactive mathematical graphs using the Desmos API.
-   **Personalized Glossary**: Students can save key terms and definitions from lessons into a personal, persistent glossary for easy review and study.
-   **Subject-Based Curriculum**: The app is neatly organized by subjects, providing a clear structure for students to navigate through lessons and learning materials.
-   **Progressive Web App (PWA)**: The application is fully PWA-enabled, allowing for installation on mobile devices and offline access to learning content.

## 📚 Subjects

The platform provides dedicated learning modules for core high school science and mathematics subjects. Each section is designed to build a strong foundation and is supported by a specialized AI tutor.

-   ### 📐 **Math (ریاضی)**
    This section focuses on building a strong foundation in key mathematical concepts. The AI tutor helps demystify complex topics in algebra, calculus, and geometry, offering step-by-step guidance and visualizing functions with interactive graphs. It's designed to help students build problem-solving skills and prepare for university entrance exams.

-   ### ⚛️ **Physics (فیزیک)**
    Explore the fundamental principles of the universe, from classical mechanics to modern physics. The AI tutor assists in breaking down complex laws and theories, making abstract concepts more tangible with real-world examples and clear explanations.

-   ### 🧪 **Chemistry (شیمی)**
    Dive into the world of atoms, molecules, and chemical reactions. This module covers everything from the periodic table to organic chemistry. The AI tutor can help you balance chemical equations, understand reaction mechanisms, and learn the properties of different substances.

-   ### 🧬 **Biology (زیست شناسی)**
    Uncover the wonders of the living world. This section covers topics from cellular biology and genetics to ecology and human anatomy. The AI tutor helps students visualize complex biological processes and understand the intricate systems that govern life.

## 🚀 Tech Stack

-   **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (App Router)
-   **Language**: [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
-   **AI Framework**: [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit)
-   **AI Model**: [Google Gemini](https://deepmind.google/technologies/gemini/)
-   **UI Components**: [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
-   **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
-   **Charting**: [Recharts](https://recharts.org/) & [Desmos API](https://www.desmos.com/api)
-   **State Management**: React Context API

## 🏁 Getting Started

To get the project up and running on your local machine, follow these simple steps.

### Prerequisites

-   [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 20.x or higher)
-   [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (usually comes with Node.js)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repository-url>
    cd <project-directory>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up environment variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the root of the project and add your Google AI API key:
    ```
    GEMINI_API_KEY=your_google_ai_api_key_here
    ```

### Running the Application

1.  **Run the development server:**
    This command starts the Next.js application.
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

2.  **Run the Genkit development server (in a separate terminal):**
    This command starts the local server for the AI flows, allowing you to test and debug them.
    ```bash
    npm run genkit:watch
    ```

3.  **Open the application:**
    Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) in your browser to see the running application. The Genkit developer UI will be available at [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

## 📁 Project Structure

The project follows a standard Next.js App Router structure:

```
.
├── src/
│   ├── app/                # Main application pages and layouts
│   ├── components/         # Reusable React components (UI, layout, features)
│   ├── ai/                 # Genkit configuration and AI flows
│   │   ├── flows/          # AI logic for features like virtual teacher
│   │   └── genkit.ts       # Core Genkit setup
│   ├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks (e.g., useUser, useGlossary)
│   ├── lib/                # Shared utilities, data, types, and configs
│   └── public/             # Static assets (images, manifest)
├── package.json
└── next.config.ts
```

## 🤖 AI Features Deep Dive

The AI functionality is powered by **Genkit**, an open-source framework for building robust AI applications.

-   **`src/ai/flows/virtual-teacher.ts`**: This flow manages the chat logic for the AI tutor. It uses Google's Gemini model and is equipped with **tools** to solve mathematical equations and generate Desmos graphs, providing a rich, interactive experience.
-   **`src/ai/flows/adaptive-learning-paths.ts`**: This flow takes a student's quiz responses and lesson context to generate a personalized analysis and suggest content for the next lesson, adapting to the student's learning curve.

---

This README provides a solid foundation for your project. Feel free to expand on any section as your application grows!
